# Essay

## Chinese Exclusion: The American Federation of Labor's Arguments and Silenced Perspectives

The late 19th century saw the United States facing a period of rapid industrialization, leading to an increase in demand for labor. This drew foreign immigrants into America seeking new opportunities, a new lifestyle, or to simply put it, to accomplish the American dream. Among these immigrants were Chinese laborers, who contributed to projects such as the Transcontinental Railroad, primarily because they were able to undercut local workers—a pattern consistent with the importation of foreign labor. This led American workers to view Chinese immigrants as threats to their employment, fueling anti-Chinese sentiment, and ultimately resulted in the passing of the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act. The Chinese Exclusion Act banned the immigration of Chinese laborers for a ten-year period and, most notably, was the first federal law to target a specific national group2. However, this would not be the last policy against the Chinese. The Geary Act of 1892 extended and imposed stricter policies on Chinese residents in the United States for another decade. As the expiration of the Geary Act approached, the American Federation of Labor, a large labor union, argued for the renewal and even stricter policies for the second time. According to the American Federation of Labor, the Chinese exclusion act should be renewed because cheap labor from the Chinese threatened the jobs of American workers, the Chinese are not able to assimilate into American culture, and that the Chinese are barbaric and would destroy the modern fabric of religion, law, science, and art. By doing so, the American Federation of Labor sought to silence and repress perspectives from the Chinese laborers as well as perspectives from Chinese women and families with the intent to settle.

Several of the key reasons the American Federation of Labor fought for the renewal of the Chinese Exclusion Act were outlined from their pamphlet Some Reasons for Chinese Exclusion, and were presented before the Senate in 1902 as reasons for the second renewal of the Chinese Exclusion Act. First, the American Federation of Labor claimed that Chinese laborers undercut wages and thus threatened the jobs of American workers. In 1881, the American Federation of Labor presented the preamble and resolution, calling the "presence of [the] Chinese and their competition with free white labor is one of the greatest evils with which any country can be afflicted"5. This rhetoric strategy employed by the American Federation of Labor intentionally casts the Chinese as fundamentally harmful to American society. By depicting the Chinese as evil, the American Federation of Labor appealed to labor unions and politicians to protect the American workers from economic competition. Nine years later, similar evidence is used during the first renewal of the Chinese Exclusion Act, "the Pacific coast and intermountain States are suffering severely from Chinese and Japanese cheap coolie labor…"5 The language used strongly implies how Asian labor is not only a threat, but how it is already impacting suffering Americans. Beyond the economic competition posed by the Chinese laborers, the American Federation of Labor claimed that the Chinese had proven themselves to be both physically and mentally incapable of assimilating into American culture. The claims that the Chinese work and live for less5, send money back out to China5, and how the Chinese "do not adopt American manners, but live in colonies, and not after the American fashion"5 This argument reinforces the idea of how Chinese immigrants were simply "temporary" and did not have any intention of contributing back to American society, thus painting them as incapable of participating long-term in foundational American life. These claims that the Chinese threaten the American foundations are further supported when the American Federation of Labor claims that the Chinese would destroy the modern fabric of religion, law, science, and art. The American Federation of Labor provides an analogy, in which the Chinese are barbaric just like the Asiatic invaders of Europe5. If the Europeans had never pushed back, all the "benefactors, scholars, soldiers, and statesmen—the patriots and martyrs of mankind"5 would have been a waste and lost5. By portraying the Chinese immigrants as barbaric, they were able to frame Chinese exclusion as necessary to protect the moral integrity of American society and culture.

While the American Federation of Labor used economic and cultural arguments to justify Chinese exclusion, they sought to repress and silence perspectives of Chinese laborers. The American Federation of Labor claims that "They [the Chinese] pay little taxes; they support no institutions, neither school, church, nor theater steadfastly, after all these years, a permanently foreign element"5. However, it can be proven that the Chinese were actually the main source of income for the state of California. During the gold rush, California imposed laws to restrict certain groups from working in the mines, including the Chinese4. However, this did not stop many Chinese miners from continuing mining. Around 50% of the tax collected by California during the Gold Rush Era were attributed to the discriminatory laws passed by California4, while the Chinese only made up around 9% of the population in California1. The American Federation of Labor also leaves out the contributions the Chinese made to the Central Pacific Railroad line. "The construction of the Central Pacific Railroad line was a Chinese achievement… We measured the work every Sunday morning; and the Chinamen without fail, always outmeasured the Cornish miners… The Chinese are skilled using the hammer and drill; and they proved themselves equal to the best Cornish miners in that work."1 The Chinese expertise and work played a major role in completing one of America's largest infrastructure projects, however the American Federation of Labor actively suppressed this information, in contrast with the suffering the white laborers faced. Additionally, the quote mentions how the Chinese were better than the Cornish workers, even though the Cornish workers were paid extra wages1. This active suppression of information, the American Federation of Labor perpetuated the false narrative that Chinese workers were worse than American labor, cheaper than American labor, and that the Chinese contributions made a negative impact on the US economy. Additionally, it is important to recognize how systemic racism at the time practically forced the Chinese into low-wage industries. "In this emerging economy, Chinese workers were concentrated in the low-wage industries. Cigar workers, for example, received only \$287 in annual wages, and 92 percent of them were Chinese. By contrast, tailors and seamsters earned \$588 a year, and only 9% of them were Chinese. Chinese workers were also segregated within individual industries and paid less than white workers…"1 The American Federation of Labor represses this truth, instead painting it as "invading the cigar, shoe, broom…industries and have displaced more than 4,000 men…"5 This segregation was not accidental, but rather a product of discriminator labor practices which prevented Chinese workers from getting better-paying jobs. The American Federation of Labor represses this reality, ignoring the fact that Chinese laborers were often confined to these sectors, and instead only focus on the job displacement. This ultimately allowed for the American Federation of Labor to justify exclusion laws without acknowledging the larger problem at hand: the system of racial inequality that created the conditions in which they complained about.

Another perspective the American Federation of Labor actively sought to repress and silence was the role of Chinese women and families. The American Federation of Labor claims that “the Chinese, living on the most meager food, having no families to support…”5 The American Federation of Labor generalizes that these Chinese laborers have no attachment to anyone else. However, this was not at all the case. Women were often barred entry when immigrating to the United States, for fear that they were potential prostitutes until proven otherwise2. “Both women [wives of laborers] were married to Chinese laborers who were bringing them back  after a visit to China. While their husbands, who possessed the proper certificate indicating prior residence in the United states, were allowed to reenter, the two women were barred because they were of the laboring class and were entering the United States for the first time.” The immigration barriers imposed often broke up Chinese families, which perpetuated the stereotype that Chinese immigrants were unattached to society and had no families to support. The American Federation of Labor targeted individual laborers, while simultaneously ignoring entire families, further dehumanizing Chinese immigrants to strengthen the argument for the renewal of the Chinese Exclusion Act. The American Federation of Labor also sought to suppress prostitution through its claims to defend ideal American beliefs of how “The true American hero is the man who…brings his wages out home for his wife”3 and how “It is our purpose to keep it pure and uncontaminated, as it is our purpose and destiny to broaden and enlarge it. We are trustees for mankind.”5 However, with prostitution, it is not exactly a one way street, it must be a party of two.4 By intentionally suppressing perspectives from prostitutes, the American Federation of Labor hides the uncomfortable truth about the participation of American men in such systems.

In conclusion, the American Federation of Labor's campaign for the renewal of the Chinese Exclusion Act relied heavily on economic, racial, and cultural arguments, deliberately suppressing the perspectives of Chinese laborers and their families. By portraying Chinese workers as a threat to American jobs, incapable of assimilation, and destructive to American values, the American Federation of Labor ignored their contributions to significant infrastructure projects like the Transcontinental Railroad and the systemic racism that confined them to low-wage industries. Moreover, by silencing the experiences of Chinese women and families, the American Federation of Labor reinforced stereotypes that dehumanized the Chinese community, ultimately justifying exclusionary policies that perpetuated racial inequality.

## Bibliography

**Reading from Course Reader**

- 1 Ronald Takaki, “Gam Saan Haak: The Chinese in Nineteenth-Century America,” Strangers From a Different Shore (New York: Penguin Books, 1990), 79, 85, 88.
- 2 Judy Yung, “Bound Feet: Chinese Women in the Nineteenth-Century,” Unbound Feet: A Social History of Chinese Women in San Francisco (Berkeley: UC Press, 1995), 22, 24.
- 3 Eithne Luibheid, “A Blueprint for Exclusion,” Entry Denied (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2002), 34.

**Lecture**

- 4 Cheng, Lecture, 9/16/24-9/30/24.

**Primary Document**

- 5 The American Federation of Labor, Some Reasons for Chinese Exclusion: Meat vs. Rice, American Manhood Against Asiatic Coolieism. Which Shall Survive? (Washington D.C., The American Federation of Labor, 1902), 25-26, 29.
